.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH noyafmt 1  "noyafmt 0.0.1" 
.SH NAME
noyafmt \- Format YAML files via the noyalib CST formatter
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnoyafmt\fR [\fB\-\-check\fR] [\fB\-\-write\fR] [\fB\-\-stdin\fR] [\fB\-\-indent\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] [\fIFILE\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
noyafmt — auto\-format YAML via the noyalib CST.
.PP
Reads YAML from FILE arguments (or stdin via \-\-stdin) and
rewrites them through noyalib\*(Aqs lossless CST formatter.
Comments, anchor positions, and document structure are
preserved byte\-for\-byte; only whitespace and quoting are
normalised.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-check\fR
Verify each FILE is formatted; print the list of files that need formatting and exit 1 if any do. Non\-destructive. Suitable as a pre\-commit / CI gate
.TP
\fB\-\-write\fR
Rewrite each FILE in place. Default is to print the formatted source to stdout
.TP
\fB\-\-stdin\fR
Read from stdin, write to stdout. Mutually exclusive with FILE arguments
.TP
\fB\-\-indent\fR \fI<N>\fR [default: 2]
Indentation width in spaces
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version
.TP
[\fIFILE\fR]
YAML files to format. Pass `\-\-stdin` to read from stdin instead
.SH EXTRA
EXAMPLES:
  noyafmt config.yaml               # print formatted source to stdout
  noyafmt \-\-write config.yaml       # rewrite in place
  noyafmt \-\-check ci/*.yaml         # CI gate
  cat foo.yaml | noyafmt \-\-stdin
.SH VERSION
v0.0.1
